## Terminology

Xiaoquan:

I'm still confused about the difference between fixed effects (n groups) and dummy variables with n categories. I feel like, in terms of the linear regression formula, they are the same, since, before I heard about the concept of a fixed effect, I also added C(variable x) to the regression model when trying to control different groups. How's the linear regression output associated with 'fixed effects effectively demean dependent variables'

I still don't completely grasp when to use an interaction term. Like, how do I know? We did them in stats last fall also, and I still don't know a good way to detect a situation when I should add one.

Elisa:

It was not clear to me from the readings what the difference between fixed effects and hierarchical models is besides the fact that fixed effects have more robust assumptions in the sense that it does not assume that the magnitudes of group difference are uncorrelated with the other explanatory variables in the model. I'd appreciate more insights into how clustered standard errors will account for this assumption and what the general intuition is behind the differences. Under what circumstances is it appropriate to use hierarchical models?

## Reference category

Kashaf:

I was confused about how do we select a reference category when working with indicator variables (especially in cases where we have more than 2 categories)? Based on my previous classes (particularly IDS 702), this choice of a reference category may depend on the research question we are trying to answer. For example, if the research question is about the effect of a policy change on different income groups, it might make sense to choose the lowest income group as the reference, as they may be the most affected by the policy change. However, I am confused which category to pick in two cases: (i) the categories do not have an order or relation to them like race (white, black, etc), and (ii) if the categories are not proportionally divided, would that affect our results if we pick the more common category or the least common one as our reference? Moreover, I was also confused if the application of a reference category would have different results in python compared to other languages. I used Stata in the past for this analysis and it had some tests that one has to run before deciding the base category - I am not sure if we can run any tests using python or R to determine this?

## Mixed Models

Yuanjing

What I find most confusing is the interchangeability of terminologies and concepts across various fields. In "A Guide to Econometrics", Kennedy explains that a fixed effects model estimates within-group variation, while a random effects model estimates both within-group and between-group variation. According to the reading,  random effects+clustered standard errors is similar to both random effects models and mixed effect models. However, in the statistics class last semester with Andrea, I learned that mixed effects model include both fixed and random effects. Fixed effects refer to explanatory variables that are of particular interest in the study and are fixed or predetermined. They are typically used to explain the systematic variability in the response variable, and their coefficients are calculated from the data. In contrast, random effects are parameters that are assumed to have their own distribution to represent the randomness present within a level, group, or factor. I feel like mixed effects model is a generalization of both fixed effects and random effects models. Additionally, I am also unsure about whether fixed effects + clustered standard errors is a improved version of fixed effects model and where it should fit among these models.
