# Thursday 29th

- **Why is CTR not adequete** Charlotte

In the reading, I'm trying to understand that Little Papa Dominos is not making money even though the clicks increased. Why would they only make money if someone who was not planning to buy a pizza actually bought a pizza because of the ad? I find the pizza example a bit confusing here ("The difference is subtle..." paragraph). They are making money anyway if people just buy a pizza from Little Papa Dominos. Are we talking about the overhead costs of advertising and trying to make it more cost-effective here?

- **Can we even answer the causal question**?

- **Feasibility. Part of why we question stakeholder suggestions...** Dany (mirrored by Zhanyi, Suzanna):

For the CTR pizza example, I understood that the problem we were solving was finding the population with the highest likelihood and that this ultimately was not what we wanted to do. However, my alternative question was, "who is most likely to buy a pizza if they see an ad for it." This was the same as the proposed question except it excluded "who was not going to buy one." This part of the question really confused me, how would we get that data. In addition I would have never thought to ask that question because I didn't think that data could possibly be available. This led me to think about how one would know what data is available that would help us "easily" find a solution to our question.

- **Iterating**: Chloe (echo'd by Suzy):

One thing that I am confused about is at what stage “raising the right question” involve. In our last class activity, I encountered challenges in formulating a specific question without first conducting exploratory data analysis and obtaining some knowledge about the subject. Does the process of determining the right question come after completing exploratory data analysis and obtaining domain knowledge, or is it a continuous endeavour throughout the entire research project?

- **Specialization, Different Org Structures. Try to get to value add**: Heather:

Stakeholder management is not a new concept, however, it doesn't come up much during my informational interviews. Often I hear the data scientists being referred to as the technical folks, and they receive projects from the business consultants (or similar roles) who are responsible for collecting and fine-tuning project requirements from the stakeholders. It makes me wonder how might the separation of tasks in these large corporations hinder their capability of solving the right problem as the organizational structure reduces the direct interaction between data scientists and stakeholders. Or is the impact mitigated because someone else is managing the project requirements full-time and likely do a better job than data scientists who can only contribute a portion of their time in the particular area?

- Related: Ruixin:

For me, I feel like what data scientists do in industry is really similar to consultant, helping customers to solve their problems. I wonder what's the difference between two positions? Is the only difference whether employing data analysis to solve problems or not? Additionally, I'm wondering if casual inference is the most frequently used in data science? Since in order to understand the root cause of problems, usually we need to measure the cause and effect.

- **Lorna**: when fancy?

1. My general understanding from the readings is that simple approaches are always the best however Vincent Warmerdam’s video, in particular, got me thinking: if we can synthesize most problems to be solved by the simplest heuristics, what kinds of problems would then be addressed by the big stuff like deep learning? I would love to see a problem statement that alluvvlfblvjfuhlljlkrcjgeldrkhrndnnujttdvjbetgdudes to the use of something like deep learning. Are these "fancy terminologies" only used at scale?
