Aditya:

Additionally, are prospective questions unique to the field of public policy/social science research, etc.? Considering the example from the previous reading - should little papa domino spend to improve its CTR? They shouldn't as the problem wasn't low CTR but rather a lack of people buying sales online. Even though this is a "should" question, I don't think it qualifies as a prospective question. How do we distinguish between the two?

Bella:

I am pretty clear about the definition of the two types of questions in the reading. However, I found it confusing when it applies to real-life examples. Last semester, I took IDS720 and I think the final project is trying to answer a more proscriptive question than a descriptive question. I am not sure if that’s correct, but I will include my reasoning below:
In the final project, we are using the difference-in-difference model and pre-post model to evaluate if the policy intervention will decrease the drug overdose and mortality rate. It might seem like we are trying to answer if the policy intervention makes a difference among different states. Nevertheless, we can shift the attention to the question in a broader sense: should the state enact policy on the usage of opioids? This question can be explained using the two methods and it is leaning toward a “causal” side of solving problems. The answer strongly indicates a yes or no to the question (“Should the state enact policy on usage of opioids?”). I think pure models displaying the relationship or whatever hidden black box (any complex functions) might do a great job on prediction, but do not have a strong causal ability to answer questions or make decisions.
Thus I want to know if my interpretation of proscriptive questions is correct. I think I am generally confused about causal questions (a subcategory of descriptive questions) and proscriptive questions.

Alisa:

The first reading suggests that data science cannot answer “should” questions on its own. For the opioid overdose example, the reason that the authors give is: whether or not to implement the policy depends on the value people place on patients and the value people place on preventing overdoses. The answers to these questions cannot come from my data. My questions are: if these “values” can be collected (after weighting data from various sources), and if the final “value” can be computed numerically, can we make decisions based on these values? Why not?  The “rigors data science analysis” can tell people the consequences of a potential (policy) change, but how can people make decisions for the next step? Imagine you are hired by the state government as a data scientist for analyzing opioid overdose, and you made a conclusion that increasing opioid prescriptions regulation will reduce overdose by x to the stakeholders. Then what are the next steps? The stakeholders can take various factors into consideration. But how can they reach the conclusion of whether or not to implement the policy? Isn’t it subjective? I think if these values can be weighted, and there is an algorithm or structures, we can compute the values(or scores) of whether implementing the policy is worth it or not, and answer certain “should” questions with data science.

Dingkun/Andrew:

After today’s reading, I feel like we may need more data science ethics education. It also triggers me to question, whether it is a good thing to actually find out we have been so biased with the “help” of machine learning and more and more “precise” algorithms. I mean at least now I know what to think about first when next time I need to report and present. This concept is both confusing and enlightening at the same time. It all comes down to what kind of person we want to become, and it turns into a philosophical question. In addition, I feel like the reading means to say perspective questions instead of proscriptive questions. Please let me know which one is the right way to call it.

=========

- Elisa:

In the readings, it was emphasized that exploratory questions are often the foundations of other work. Would you say that exploratory questions should ALWAYS be asked if you're doing descriptive analysis or are there circumstances under which they could be overlooked? As an example, would it still be relevant / important to ask exploratory questions if let's say you want to build an algorithm to play chess (simply because you want to play chess without having to ask another person to play with you). Could you not directly ask the question "given a particular opponent move, what is the likelihood that I'll win if I move X piece to square Y?" to help build the algorithm? Are exploratory questions necessary here to help us achieve our goal?

- Chloe:

One thing that confuse me is that what role does data science play in terms of proscriptive questions. Proscriptive questions for me sounds like requires a judgement call. For example, if a proscriptive question is asking for recommendations on how to improve a certain aspect of a business, it would require a certain level of expertise and understanding of the industry to make an informed decision. I am curious about how data science can be used in these types of situations, and how the data is analyzed and interpreted to provide a solution.

Emma:

The author argues that answering “proscriptive questions” requires evaluating the desirability of different possible consequences, which needs to base on a system of values. It is argued that Data science cannot decide whether those consequences make a given an enactment worthy. I do understand the argument, while I’m wondering whether descriptive questions are mostly (and should be) asked before the proscriptive questions?  That is, even if data science could not decide what to do, doesn’t decision making process still need ‘data science’ in order to understand the general pattern and nuances, and in turn make the decision, such as changing policy?

Song

What’s a bit confusing is that data science cannot answer should questions. In my opinion, the main reason why many people have recently been enthusiastic about diving into data science is that data is more objective than anything. A system of values is very likely to be subjective or even political. So, my understanding is that more and more people want should questions to be answered by data, which would help them make unbiased or less biased decisions. Therefore, I believe that data science will expand their territory to address more issues related with desirability as time goes by.
